# In-Network-Scheduling

A lot of the time a patient has a health concern that they would like addressed but they don’t know which providers are in their network. A good place to start is the insurance company’s website. By adopting this software, insurance companies will be able to inform their clients about who is in network based on their insurance plan and it even goes a step farther and will schedule the appointment for them or get the client in contact with their chosen provider.
In theory, this software should be able to automate the process of setting up an appointment with a provider even further. Many calls to the insurance companies are about what provider is in or out of a certain insurance plan’s network. By having this software implemented into the insurance industry, a client can simply view this information through the software. Of course, if the patient needs more help the software would also provide the insurance company’s phone number or email address so that they can talk to a representative directly.
I am driven to create software like this because I used to work in an emergency room and many times, I would have to tell a patient that they are out of network with their insurance. Although in an emergency many patients are just trying to get to the closest hospital, it is still nice to know your options and not be blindsided by your insurance not covering what you thought they would. Even if a patient is not interested in setting up an appointment while using the software, they can still use it to see who is in their network. 

Source: https://github.com/ksu-hmi/Setting-up-a-Clinical-Appointment
